Instructional Oval Ski Club Website User Guide

This is an updated instructional guide on how to efficiently use the Oval Ski Club website attahced inside this repository that has been built using ruby on rails.

Oval Ski Club are a voluntary organisation based in Bebington, Wirral. 
Oval Ski Club offer skiing tuition for all ages and also run an active social club promoting various events through out the year, and also a Ski Racing Team which all members are welcome to join. 
They are ideally located for the Wirral, Cheshire, Liverpool and Merseyside areas.

This website enables users to check the latest events of Oval Ski Club and also sign up for membership or club events if they wish to do so.

If you wish to download this repository, navigate back to the osc folder in the directory above and type the given command in github for either HTTP, SSH or Git Read-Only.
You can also click on the ZIP option which downloads this repository as a zipped folder which then requires the files to be extracted.

When you have downloaded your repository, ensure you make a note of the directory this folder is located in once you are happy with its location. 
From this, you will be able to use the terminal efficiently and be able to run the website successfully without any problems.

Check you are in the correct directory by typing "pwd" into the terminal. 
If this is not the case, type "ls" and press enter.
A number of folders may appear depending on how your files are structured. 
Simply find the correct folder and type cd followed a space and the folder name.

You are now located in the correct directory and will be able to run the website.

The website contains the following webpages:

- Login
- Register
- Homepage
- About Us
- Social Activities
- Club Sessions
- Club Holidays
- Racing Team
- Contact Us
- FAQ ()
- Announcements ()
- Events ()

localhost:3000/login <---- URL for login page

localhost:3000/authors/new <---- URL for register page

localhost:3000/welcome/index <---- URL for home page

localhost:3000/welcome/about <---- URL for about us page

localhost:3000/welcome/social <---- URL for social activities page

localhost:3000/faqs <---- URL for faq page ()

localhost:3000/welcome/contact <---- URL for contact us page

localhost:3000/welcome/sessions <---- URL for club sessions page

localhost:3000/welcome/holidays <---- URL for club holidays page

localhost:3000/welcome/racing <---- URL for racing team page

localhost:3000/events/ <---- URL for events page ()

localhost:3000/announcements/ <---- URL for announcements page ()

() - website pages that contain built in databases

Shown above are the URLs that correspond to each website page.

Once you have navigated to the correct directory of this repository folder, ensure that you run a 'bundle install' in order for gems required for website functionality are installed. 

Next, run 'rails g sunspot_rails:install' in the terminal. This will install the sunspot rails and ensure the search functionality of the FAQ, Events and Announcement pages works. 
Finally, run 'rake sunspot:solr:start'. If the output states that solr successfully started, then the search feature will function as expected when a user navigates the relevant webpages containing search functionality. 

Once the steps described previously have been completed, the website can then be run. 
Type "rails s" into the terminal and the rails server should initialise. 
From this, you can type in any of the URL's specified above and press enter to start viewing the website.
If you wish to stop the rails server from running, use the ctrl-c keyboard shortcut in the terminal.

A user authentication system has been included in this website. A register page has been built which allows a user to sign up to the Oval Ski Club website by filling in username, email and password details.
From this they can login with their details and see that they are logged in on the bottom left hand corner of the webpage.

This website has a built in rss feed on the homepage providing information of the current weather forecast relating to Oval Ski Clubs location.

On the FAQ, Event and Announcement pages, databases are included allowing a user to create, edit and delete questions, club events and announcements respectively. 
On each of these pages, search functionality has been included which allows a user to search for a specific question, ski club event or announcement contained in the list.

For the information contained in the event database, a JSON feed has been included which allows the user to view the JSON coding of each event in the database.
